Desperately Seeking Noob Status

At the start of my learning to program adventure, my mentor referred to
me as a noob in an email exchange. I made the mistake of
correcting his spelling, assuming he must have meant newb, as in newbie,
one "new" to a particular practice or profession. I even sent him an urban dictionary
link as added support and humorous reference material. 

His response: 

Wow. Just wow. You just solidified your "noob" status majorly. First off
only dumb marketing people use the term "newb" and then go on to
actually quote something from Urban Dictionary. Seriously, you are
quoting "Urban Dictionary"? It's so lame I won't even click on the link.
You're "noob" status just hit a whole new level. I'm not even sure there
is a term for it. And by the way, if you were a gamer (which obviously
you are not), you would be referred to as "n00b". That's right double
zero style. This is fucking unbelievable.

Huh. So apparently I was already way behind in this whole programming
thing and I hadn't even started? Hello Humble.

I learned a lot from my mentor over the next several months, his bark
being infinitely more worse than his bite, and came to the quick
realization that once-a-week-instruction, with some practice in the
evenings after my day job, was not going to cut it. I needed to find a way
to do this full time, because I was hooked and desperately seeking noob
status - for real.

Enter the opportunity at gSchool. I applied, I stalked the founder, and
I was a mild train wreck at the interview, which combined, all magically resulted
in my acceptance (because apparently they don't read your writing
sample). And so began my noob life. In week one, or rather week zero,
they started us off with an initiation in improv, Ruby in 100 minutes and a
tidal wave of tutorials to prep us for the deep end of the ocean, which
is weird, because I was pretty sure I was already in the deep end of the
ocean when I quit my career of 10 years so I could learn to code.

A small handful of highlights from the week included: 
- string manipulation
- using ERB for templating
- reading data from CSV files
- rotating arrays
- zipping hashes
- middleman blog creation
- installing and using gems
- setting up programming environment
- conditional branching and looping

And while I would love to expound on all of the above, or even provide
the full list of topics covered in week zero, there is just no
fucking way. I am buried. Or to keep with the ocean metaphor,
drowning. I never expected this noob life to be easy, but right now, I
am just hoping I can actually keep swimming for the next six months.

