gSchool Refactor?

I am currently reading a book from the gSchool reading list called
Pragmatic Thinking and Learning: Refactor your Wetware (Pragmatic
Programmers). The author, Andy Hunt, dives into how our brains are
wired, and how to apply ourselves in learning new skills. It is written
with programming in mind, but uses examples and analogies that span
other professional and artistic disciplines. Andy claims:

"In this book you'll learn how to:
- Use the Dreyfus Model of Skill Acquisition to become more expert
- Leverage the architecture of the brain to strengthen different thinking
- modes
- Avoid common "known bugs" in your mind
- Learn more deliberately and more effectively
- Manage knowledge more efficiently"

Yes please. Sign me up.  

I am only on chapter 3, but actually feeling like there might be hope
for me yet. He talks at length about the Dreyfus model of Skill
Acquistion in the first three chapters. I won't go into detail on the
model, but it's worth investigating further if you are so inclined. I
will, however, provide you with Katrina's succinct and apt summation of the scale:
  
- Novice: where you know nothing
- Advanced beginner: where you still suck, but you start seeing what
this might be about
- Competent: where you can start getting shit done
- Proficient: where you get shit done really well
- Expert: where the shit you get done seems like magic to pretty much
everyone else.

I am a novice. And I have been beating myself up about it for the past
three weeks. Which may sound irrational, but not when you consider that the
only measure I have of whether or not I am progressing according to plan
is my ability to deliver on the work assigned to me. And I am not
delivering. I am not finishing work per the requirements set forth in
the assignments, nor apparently to the expectations of gSchool, because upon inquiry, the message returned was, "We don't give you anything you can't finish". Hmmm...so
I am either worse off than I thought, or I should have punched someone
in the nose at that precise moment. Jury is still out...

Here is the thing - I believe in this program and I want to succeed. 
And - given the first three weeks, I'm also having a hard time trusting
the process, because it feels very unfriendly and dismissive of a
novice's particular state of mind and learning needs. I also know that I
will catch up, and that I will get to a better place. I will attack this
with everything I have and I won't quit until my foundation is strong and
"Kevin-like-Awesome". But just because I will, or just because I can, or
just because the last session of gSchool students did --  doesn't mean
there isn't room for improvement in how gSchool builds developers. 

So in reading this book, I have some ideas for gSchool. Ideas that
specifically cater to the novice, because I think there is some missed opportunity in the first few weeks of school to set the true novices up for success.

- Fundamentals & Foundation Building Study Hall. Maybe three times a
  week, for an hour or so. We need this now. Right now.
- Mentors. Set them up before school starts and introduce them in the
  first week. 
- Draw more pictures, earlier. Overviews of how things fit together in
  the language should be introduced earlier and then repeated more than
  once. They make a big difference.
- Introduce the projects later. The pressure of finishing the project by
  the due date may in fact be gSchool's achilles heel. There is
  supporting research - people's brains begin to shut down and the focus
  shifts in unproductive ways, actually obstructing learning and
  retention. There is a better way to do this. Doesn't mean all project
  due dates go out the window, because that would be dumb. But so is the
  current approach, especially when the night before a project is due,
  you pull the deadline completely. Again - jury out about whether I
  felt like saying "thanks" or punching a nose ...
- More "We Do". It feels pretty sparse and sporadic right now.

I think just a smidge of refactoring right now has the potential to pay
huge dividends in the future. gSchool will be measured by its product,
which ultimately are its students. So help us help you. 

Or I might punch myself in the nose.



